genre now that's a fun word to say genre
is that franchise do you know what a
genre is a genre is a category when you
like movies you don't always like every
kind or every genre of movie you might
love comedy movies but not scary ones
well those are two different types or
genres of movie we put other things in
twos on rus' we might split our building
sets into different categories like say
I don't know a space castle city
well books work the same way most
chapter books are part of a large John
recalled fiction and that just means
those books tell a story that came from
the author's imagination but fiction
alone doesn't tell us many details about
what's in the book so we divide books up
into more specific fiction genres Harry
Potter and Charlotte's Web are both
fiction books but they have very
different settings and characters so we
put them into different fiction genres
let's talk about one specific fiction
genre or right now you know those books
that have spaceships and robots and
aliens and time-travel stuff like that
we call those kind of stories science
fiction or sci-fi for short science
fiction like most fiction tells a story
that came from the author's imagination
but what makes it different from other
kinds of fiction science fiction
contains unreal things that could be
real in our world in the future the
unreal things in science fiction could
be those amazing spaceships or robots or
aliens or time machines or any other
kind of technology or discovery that
just maybe possibly could happen a lot
of imagination goes into writing science
fiction and building a world of
possibilities that's why it's so fun to
read science fiction often explores what
happens when things go wrong with those
tools or advancements it's cool to build
rockets and explore outer space but what
if the aliens we meet aren't so friendly
sci-fi can help us think about the many
different outcomes of our actions most
science fiction takes place in the real
world or at least in a world with
similar rules to ours sci-fi books have
amazing inventive things in them
but those things play by the rules of
our world of what we know and really
experience in other words cool stuff
happens because of science not magic if
someone can turn invisible in a science
fiction book it's because they built a
light refracting hologram projection
device not just because they drank an
enchanted potion science fiction is
typically set in the future now the
future could be the next century or the
next day but in the imagined future
there's a technology or a scientific
discovery that makes things possible
that would be impossible in the present
of course some science fiction can be
set in the present in an alternative but
familiar world
there's even subgenres of sci-fi that
are set in the past like steampunk where
advanced technologies are imagined to
exist in a time before electricity when
you get into zon rest' uh tea you have
to remember that there's always an
exception to every rule
genres get mixed up and remixed all the
time and that makes it fun so that's
science fiction it's full of unreal
things that could be real in our world
or a similar world in the near or
distant future
sci-fi authors write about what if and
what could be and that can help us think
about what's happening right now and how
our choices affect the future and the
world and the else worlds beyond the
multiverse yeah that's the kind of stuff
you're gonna read in science fiction so
get used to it it's awesome